SLEP009: keyword only arguments (#19)
scikit-learn/enhancement_proposals: slep009/proposal.rst

keyword arguments. For example, both the following are valid:

.. code-block:: python

    # positional arguments
    clf = svm.SVC(.1, 'rbf')
    # keyword arguments
    clf = svm.SVC(C=.1, kernel='rbf')

Using keyword arguments has a few benefits:

- it is more readable
- for models which accept many parameters, especially numerical, it is less
  error-prone than positional arguments. Compare these examples:

.. code-block:: python

    cls = cluster.OPTICS(
        min_samples=5, max_eps=inf, metric=’minkowski’, p=2,
        metric_params=None, cluster_method=’xi’, eps=None, xi=0.05,
        predecessor_correction=True, min_cluster_size=None, algorithm=’auto’,
        leaf_size=30, n_jobs=None)

    cls = cluster.OPTICS(5, inf, ’minkowski’, 2, None, ’xi’, None, 0.05,
                         True, None, ’auto’, 30, None)

- it allows us to add new parameters closer the other relevant parameters,
  instead of adding new ones at the end of the list. Right now all new
  parameters are added at the end for backward compatibility. We may even get
  some sections support in numpydoc, and have sections in the documentation for
  the parameters.

Solution
--------

> A proposed solution is available at

Reviewer: FYI matplotlib added a decorator like this, we could reuse / link to it / share thoughts with them?

Author: added links

        pass

    class LogisticRegression:

        @warn_args
        def __init__(self, penalty='l2', *, dual=False):

            self.penalty = penalty
            self.dual = dual

Calling `LogisticRegression('l2', True)` will result with a
`DeprecationWarning`:

.. code-block:: bash

    Should use keyword args: dual=True

Once the deprecation period is over, we'd remove the decorator and calling
the function/method with the positional arguments after `*` would fail.

Challenges
----------

The official supported way to have keyword only arguments is:

.. code-block:: python

    def func(arg1, arg2, *, arg3, arg4)

Which means the function can only be called with `arg3` and `arg4` specified
as keyword arguments:

.. code-block:: python

    func(1, 2, arg3=3, arg4=4)

The feature was discussed and the related PEP
([PEP3102](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-3102/)) was accepted and
introduced in Python 3.0, in 2006. However, partly due to the fact that the
Scipy/PyData was supporting Python 2 until recently, the feature (among other
Python 3 features) has seen limited adoption and the users may not be used to

> seeing the syntax. For instance, for the above function, defined in VSCode,

Reviewer: is that with the decorator or with just plain keyword only arguments? Your comment in the issue confused me.

Author: yeah, no decorator here, clarified the text

.. _slep_009:

===============================
SLEP009: Keyword-only arguments
===============================

:Author: Adrin Jalali
:Status: Draft
:Type: Standards Track
:Created: 2019-07-13

Abstract
--------

This proposal discusses the path to gradually forcing users to pass arguments,
or most of them, as keyword arguments only. It talks about the status-quo, and
the motivation to introduce the change. It shall cover the pros and cons of the
change. The original issue starting the discussion is located
[here](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/12805).

Motivation
----------

> At the moment `sklearn` accepts most of the arguments both as positional and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the moment `sklearn` accepts all arguments both as positional and
```

> keyword arguments. For example, both the following are valid:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
keyword arguments. For example, both of the following are valid:
```

.. code-block:: python

    # positional arguments
    clf = svm.SVC(.1, 'rbf')
    # keyword arguments
    clf = svm.SVC(C=.1, kernel='rbf')

Using keyword arguments has a few benefits:

> - it is more readable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is more readable.
```

> - for models which accept many parameters, especially numerical, it is less

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For models which accept many parameters, especially numerical, it is less
```

  error-prone than positional arguments. Compare these examples:

.. code-block:: python

    cls = cluster.OPTICS(
        min_samples=5, max_eps=inf, metric=’minkowski’, p=2,
        metric_params=None, cluster_method=’xi’, eps=None, xi=0.05,
        predecessor_correction=True, min_cluster_size=None, algorithm=’auto’,
        leaf_size=30, n_jobs=None)

    cls = cluster.OPTICS(5, inf, ’minkowski’, 2, None, ’xi’, None, 0.05,
                         True, None, ’auto’, 30, None)

> - it allows us to add new parameters closer the other relevant parameters,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It allows adding new parameters closer the other relevant parameters,
```

>   instead of adding new ones at the end of the list. Right now all new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  instead of adding new ones at the end of the list without breaking backward compatibility. Right now all new
```

>   parameters are added at the end for backward compatibility. We may even get

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  parameters are added at the end of the signature. We may even get
```

>   some sections support in numpydoc, and have sections in the documentation for

Reviewer: I don't understand the last sentence and don't know how it's relevant.

Author: Changed it to:

Once we move to a keyword only argument list, we can change their
  order and put related parameters together. Assuming at some point numpydoc
  would support sections for parameters, these groups of parameters would be
  in different sections for the documentation to be more readable.

  the parameters.

Solution
--------

> A proposed solution is available at

Reviewer: I think the decorator is not the main point. It's a means to an end. The solution is keyword only arguments. We should first discuss keyword only arguments and their pro's and con's.

The decorator is just a deprecation pathway that's not really related to the ultimate solution. There are other pathways for introducing keyword only arguments that don't involve the decorator (like doing it for all new estimators or all new parameter etc).

I think the real comparison should be "situation now" vs "situation after the deprecation cycle", and then discuss why the new situation is better.

Then we can discuss how to get to the new situation and talk about the decorator.

[#13311](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/13311), which
deprecates the usage of positional arguments for most arguments on certain

> functions. It uses a decorator, and removing the decorator would result in an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
functions and methods. It uses a decorator, and removing the decorator would result in an
```

error if the function is called with positional arguments. Examples (borrowing
from the PR):

.. code-block:: python

    @warn_args
    def dbscan(X, eps=0.5, *, min_samples=4, metric='minkowski'):
        pass

    class LogisticRegression:

        @warn_args
        def __init__(self, penalty='l2', *, dual=False):

            self.penalty = penalty
            self.dual = dual

Calling ``LogisticRegression('l2', True)`` will result with a
``DeprecationWarning``:

.. code-block:: bash

    Should use keyword args: dual=True

Once the deprecation period is over, we'd remove the decorator and calling
the function/method with the positional arguments after `*` would fail.

Challenges
----------

> The official supported way to have keyword only arguments is:

Reviewer: This should be under solution, not challenges. It's not a challenge that pep3102 introduced this.

.. code-block:: python

    def func(arg1, arg2, *, arg3, arg4)

Which means the function can only be called with `arg3` and `arg4` specified
as keyword arguments:

.. code-block:: python

    func(1, 2, arg3=3, arg4=4)

The feature was discussed and the related PEP
([PEP3102](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-3102/)) was accepted and
introduced in Python 3.0, in 2006. However, partly due to the fact that the
Scipy/PyData was supporting Python 2 until recently, the feature (among other
Python 3 features) has seen limited adoption and the users may not be used to

> seeing the syntax. For instance, for the above function, defined in VSCode, the

Reviewer: I think there are two main concerns: that users are unfamiliar with the syntax, and that keyword only arguments are not well supported by IDEs.
I think you should put these as the two main challenges, and here talking about it without the decorator (as you did). Then you can discuss what's actually happening. But the two main challenges should be clear. Also, I think you should start with a summary of what the outcome of IDE support is.
It doesn't look like there's actual issues, but you also only looked at VSCode.

hint would be shown as (these outputs are without the usage of the decorator):

.. code-block:: python

               func(arg1, arg2, *, arg3, arg4)

               param arg3
    func(1, 2, |)

The good news is that the IDE understands the syntax and tells the user it's
the ``arg3``'s turn. But it doesn't say it is a keyword only argument.

`ipython` would show:

.. code-block:: python

    In [1]: def func(arg1, arg2, *, arg3, arg4): pass               

    In [2]: func( 
      abs()                          arg3=                           
      all()                          arg4=                           
      any()                          ArithmeticError                >
      arg1=                          ascii()                         
      arg2=                          AssertionError                  

> However, with the decorator, ``ipython`` shows:

Reviewer: This should be in a different section below on the decorator as it's about the deprecation path, not about the final solution.

.. code-block:: python

    In [2]: func( 
      arg1=                          ArithmeticError                 
      abs()                          ascii()                         
      all()                          AssertionError                 >
      any()                          AttributeError                  

The parameters are still all there, but a bit more hidden and in a different
order. The hint shown by VSCode seems unaffected.

Scope
-----

> The main question is, which functions/methods should follow this pattern. We

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An important open question is which functions/methods and/or parameters should follow this pattern. We
```

> have a few categories here:

Reviewer: I don't know what here means? We have different categories in scikit-learn? Or we're listing some categories in this document but they are not exhaustive?
What's actually happening is that we're listing options of what we could do, which is not what I expected after this sentence.

- The ``__init__`` parameters
  * all arguments
  * less commonly used arguments only (For instance, ``C`` and ``kernel`` in
    ``SVC`` could be positional, the rest keyword only).
- Main methods of the API, _i.e._ ``fit``, ``transform``, etc.
  * all arguments
  * less commonly used arguments only (For instance, ``X`` and ``y`` in
    ``fit`` could be positional, the rest keyword only).
- Functions
  * all arguments

>   * less commonly used arguments only (For instance, ``score_func`` in

Reviewer: Or just some functions?
We have very different kinds of functions.
Can you give some examples?

Hm I have a lot of sklearn code from github that we mined and we could look for what people are doing right now. Or we could look at usage in the examples.
What are commonly used functions?

also, for each three of these, what is "commonly used"? Are we gonna discuss every argument of every function separately?

    ``make_scorer`` could be positional, the rest keyword only).

> The change can also be a gradual one in the span of two or three releases. But

Reviewer: This again is a question about the deprecation cycle. As said above, I would first discuss everything as if we could do it right now, and then later discuss the deprecation cycle options.

I'm not sure if that's a better idea than telling people they should do keyword
only, always, once.

Notes
-----

Some conversations with the users of `sklearn` who have been using the package
for a while, shows the feedback is positive for this change.

It is also worth noting that ``matplotlib`` has introduced a decorator for this
purpose in versoin 3.1, and the related PRs can be found
[here](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/14130) and

> [here](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/14130).

Reviewer: those are the same link.

    clf = svm.SVC(C=.1, kernel='rbf')

Using keyword arguments has a few benefits:

- It is more readable.
- For models which accept many parameters, especially numerical, it is less
  error-prone than positional arguments. Compare these examples:

.. code-block:: python

    cls = cluster.OPTICS(
        min_samples=5, max_eps=inf, metric=’minkowski’, p=2,
        metric_params=None, cluster_method=’xi’, eps=None, xi=0.05,
        predecessor_correction=True, min_cluster_size=None, algorithm=’auto’,
        leaf_size=30, n_jobs=None)

    cls = cluster.OPTICS(5, inf, ’minkowski’, 2, None, ’xi’, None, 0.05,
                         True, None, ’auto’, 30, None)

- It allows adding new parameters closer the other relevant parameters,
  instead of adding new ones at the end of the list without breaking backward
  compatibility. Right now all new parameters are added at the end of the
  signature. Once we move to a keyword only argument list, we can change their
  order and put related parameters together. Assuming at some point numpydoc
  would support sections for parameters, these groups of parameters would be
  in different sections for the documentation to be more readable.

> 

Reviewer 2: We have previously assumed users would pass most parameters by name and have considered changes to be backwards compatible when they modified the order of parameters. For example, user code relying on positional arguments could break after a deprecated parameter was removed.  Accepting this SLEP would make this requirement explicit.

Solution
########

The official supported way to have keyword only arguments is:

.. code-block:: python

    def func(arg1, arg2, *, arg3, arg4)

Which means the function can only be called with `arg3` and `arg4` specified
as keyword arguments:

.. code-block:: python

    func(1, 2, arg3=3, arg4=4)

The feature was discussed and the related PEP
`PEP3102 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-3102/>`_ was accepted and
introduced in Python 3.0, in 2006.

For the change to happen in ``sklearn``, we would need to add the ``*`` where

> we want all the parameters after which to be passed as keyword only.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
we want all subsequent parameters to be passed as keyword only.
```

Considerations
##############

We can identify the following main challenges: familiarity of the users with
the syntax, and its support by different IDEs.

Syntax
------

Partly due to the fact that the Scipy/PyData has been supporting Python 2 until
recently, the feature (among other Python 3 features) has seen limited adoption

> and the users may not be used to seeing the syntax.

Reviewer 2: Users are liable to confuse this syntax with the variable arguments syntax which also uses a single asterisk.

However, some other teams are already moving towards using the syntax, such as
``matplotlib`` which has introduced the syntax with a deprecation cycle using a

> decorator for this purpose in version 3.1, and the related PRs can be found

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
decorator for this purpose in version 3.1. The related PRs can be found
```

- Main methods of the API, *i.e.* ``fit``, ``transform``, etc.
  * All arguments
  * Less commonly used arguments only (For instance, ``X`` and ``y`` in
  ``fit`` could be positional, the rest keyword only).
- All other methods, *e.g.* ``SpectralBiclustering.get_submatrix``
  * All arguments (and this being the only option since these methods are more
  ad-hoc).
- Functions
  * All arguments
  * Less commonly used arguments only (For instance, ``score_func`` in
  ``make_scorer`` could be positional, the rest keyword only).

The term *commonly used* here can either refer to the parameters which are used
across the library, such as ``X`` and ``y``, or a parameter which is often used
when that method is used, such as ``C`` for ``SVC``. In the spirit of having a
similar interface across the library, we can go with the first definition, and
define the positional parameters independent of the estimator/function.

The change can also be a gradual one in the span of two or three releases,
*i.e.* we can start by changing the ``__init__``s, and continue later with the
other ones. But that may cause more confusion, and changing all the above

> categories together may be a better option.

Reviewer: I think the slep should argue for a particular way forward so we can vote on it, and give arguments for and against.

I think the definition of ``commonly used`` is still vague here.
Also, maybe discuss our current use of ``*args`` and ``**kwargs``? That's only in ``make_column_transformer``, ``make_pipeline`` and ``train_tests_split`` and these already require the other arguments to be passed by keyword, and they would remain unchanged, right?

What is the proposal for ``cross_validate`` and ``cross_val_score``? How about ``GridSearchCV`` and ``accuracy_score``, ``euclidean_distances``?

I feel maybe ``estimator, X, y`` could be positional and the rest keyword only?

Reviewer 2: I would appreciate an empirical analysis of usage of positional arguments in existing example code (and perhaps test code). Would you be able to get those stats from an abstract syntax tree, @adrinjalali?

Deprecation Path
----------------

For a smooth transition, we need an easy deprecation path. Similar to the
decorators developed in ``matplotlib``, a proposed solution is available at
[#13311](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/13311), which
deprecates the usage of positional arguments on selected functions and methods.
With the decorator, the user sees a warning if they pass the designated
keyword-only arguments as positional, and removing the decorator would result
in an error. Examples (borrowing from the PR):

.. code-block:: python

    @warn_args
    def dbscan(X, eps=0.5, *, min_samples=4, metric='minkowski'):
        pass

    class LogisticRegression:

        @warn_args
        def __init__(self, penalty='l2', *, dual=False):

            self.penalty = penalty
            self.dual = dual

Calling ``LogisticRegression('l2', True)`` will result with a
``DeprecationWarning``:

.. code-block:: bash

    Should use keyword args: dual=True

Once the deprecation period is over, we'd remove the decorator and calling

> the function/method with the positional arguments after `*` would fail.

Reviewer: I think the only thing missing from the discussion right now is what happens with IDEs/IPython when we do the decorator, and what happens with sphinx when we do the decorator.

Author: @thomasjpfan do you have the answer to these?

Notes
#####

> Some conversations with the users of `sklearn` who have been using the package

Reviewer 2: This is extremely vague!

the ``arg3``'s turn. But it doesn't say it is a keyword only argument.

`ipython`, however, suggests all parameters be given with the keyword anyway:

.. code-block:: python

    In [1]: def func(arg1, arg2, *, arg3, arg4): pass               

    In [2]: func( 
      abs()                          arg3=                           
      all()                          arg4=                           
      any()                          ArithmeticError                >
      arg1=                          ascii()                         
      arg2=                          AssertionError                  

Scope
#####

An important open question is which functions/methods and/or parameters should
follow this pattern, and which parameters should be keyword only. We can
identify the following categories of functions/methods:

- ``__init__``s
- Main methods of the API, *i.e.* ``fit``, ``transform``, etc.
- All other methods, *e.g.* ``SpectralBiclustering.get_submatrix``
- Functions

With regard to the common methods of the API, the decision for these methods
should be the same throughout the library in order to keep a consistent
interface to the user.

> This proposal suggests making only *most commonly* used parameters positional.

Reviewer 3: Is is always the case? e.g., ``estimators`` is important for ``VotingRegressor``, but I think it's acceptable to use ``VotingRegressor([('XXX', est1), ('XXX', est2)])`` (actually this code snippet is extracted from our example).

Reviewer 2: I don't understand your argument here @qinhanmin2014. `estimators` is VotingRegressor's most commonly used argument... So it would remain acceptable as a positional argument.

In general I'd say that all arguments that are essentially required will be accepted as positional. So in GridSearchCV for example: estimator and param_grid would be positional, cv maybe, scoring not.

Reviewer 3: Sorry I misunderstood this part.
I think it's difficult to define ``most commonly used parameters`` here. Different people might have different opinions and we might make users surprised.

Reviewer 3: > In general I'd say that all arguments that are essentially required will be accepted as positional. So in GridSearchCV for example: estimator and param_grid would be positional, cv maybe, scoring not.

I think currently most people pass cv as keyword argument because there're so many other arguments before it?

Author: If people pass `cv` as keyword argument, then they won't have any issue after this change.

And for the other ones, they will see a DeprecationWarning for a while, and they know how to fix it. I don't understand the argument regarding the users being surprised. This change doesn't break any code immediately.

Reviewer 3: I mean it's difficult to define most commonly used parameters here. Different people might have different opinions and we might make users surprised.
I'm not opposed to it, but this seems time-consuming and I can't see how users will benefit from it (I admit that it is less error-prone, but I tend to believe that such error rarely occurs.)

Reviewer 2: I see the benefit here to be more about forcing improved readability than reducing the risk or consequence of user error. I fear that lots of uses not inculcated with writing readable code (including former physicists and statisticians, PhD students, etc) are prone to passing things positionally, along with C and Java coders, etc. Python forces other readable conventions on them, like whitespace. Let's improve scikit-learn code readability.

Reviewer 3: > I fear that lots of uses not inculcated with writing readable code (including former physicists and statisticians, PhD students, etc) are prone to passing things positionally, along with C and Java coders, etc.

I'm still a student so you and Andy definitely know more about how others write code :)

Actually we already force readability in many classes/functions (e.g., when an important parameter is not the first parameter.)

As I said above, I'm not opposed to it (though slightly worried about how do define the term "most commonly used parameters"), but I feel that it's time-consuming and trivial, so if someone has time, maybe he/she can focus on other things.

Author: You don't have to spend time on this @qinhanmin2014 if you don't want to. I'm happy to spend time on this as I see it as a very significant improvement on the API, and the solution is also not that time consuming as proposed in the PR.

Reviewer 3: OK, then

The *most commonly* used parameters are defined per method or function, to be
defined as either of the following two ways:

> - The set defined and agreed upon by the core developers, which should cover

Author: @amueller are these two not concrete enough?

Reviewer: ah ok didn't see that. Yeah that's fine.

  the *easy* cases.
- A set identified as being in the top 95% of the use cases, using some
  automated analysis such as `this one
  <https://odyssey.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tutorial.html>`_ or `this one
  <https://github.com/Quansight-Labs/python-api-inspect>`_.

This way we would minimize the number of warnings the users would receive,
which minimizes the friction cause by the change. This SLEP does not define
these parameter sets, and the respective decisions shall be made in their
corresponding pull requests.

Deprecation Path
----------------

For a smooth transition, we need an easy deprecation path. Similar to the
decorators developed in ``matplotlib``, a proposed solution is available at
[#13311](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/13311), which

> deprecates the usage of positional arguments on selected functions and methods.

Reviewer 3: first introduce it on selected functions and methods, will this make users surprised? I'm not sure.
